There is something unusual about Mount
Rushmore. Unlike most sculptures, which
look painstakingly crafted, Mount
Rushmore almost seems like it formed out
of the mountain naturally, and not by
the work of a great sculptor. One of the
trickiest parts about the sculpture was
the eyes. Typical Greek sculptures have
perfectly smooth eyes, which look flat
and lifeless. To give the eyes a
realistic shine, he cut out a hole that
was deep enough to always be in shadow.
Then, at the center of the pupil, a
square section would be left uncut to
give the impression of a reflection in
the eye. This was an extremely risky
process, since the rock could fall under
its own weight at any moment. Its effect
was amazing, and when viewed from far
away, these square sections gave the
eyes a shiny texture.